Hi everyone!
Today we will start a new section.
Section 12 dictionaries.
Let's learn together more about dictionaries.
Dictionaries are used to store data values in key value pair.
It's a collection which is ordered, tangible and do not allow duplicates.
As of Python version 3.7.
Dictionaries are ordered in Python 3.6 and earlier.
Dictionaries are unordered.
Dictionaries are written with a curly brackets and have key and value pair.
To print a value from the dictionary, it will be referred by using the q name like here in this example.
To print the value first, we will refer to the Q brand.
Like we just said, as of Python version 3.7, dictionaries are ordered.
When we say that dictionaries are ordered, it means that the items have a defined order and that order
will not change.
In order, it means that the item do not have a defined order, and you cannot refer to an item by using
an index.
Dictionaries are changeable, meaning that we can change, add, or remove items after the dictionary
has been created.
Dictionaries cannot have two items with the same queue like here in this example.
And the second value will override the existing value to determine how many items a dictionary has.
We use the famous function length in this example.
The result.
It will be three because we have three items.
The values in dictionaries items can be of any data type.
It can be string, boolean, integer or also a collection like in this example a list from Python's
perspective.
Dictionaries are defined as objects with data type dict.
When execute the function type to a dictionary, the result it will be class dict.
Also, it's possible to use the dict constructor to make a dictionary like here in this example.
Let's go to PyCharm and do some examples.
Section 12 dictionaries first.
Examples.
Here an example of a dictionary created with a curly brackets and a key value pair.
Let's print and execute this code.
We have our dictionary.
We just said that of a new Python version 3.7 and 3.8 and new old version.
The dictionaries are ordered, but to get the first key value in the dictionary, we cannot use the
find function at this moment to have to use the index, but for example, to print the first element
of the dictionary, first key and also first value.
We can use this method to.
Convert the queue of the dictionary to list and select with the index zero to have the first queue for
the first value.
Also, you update the value of the dictionary to the list and use the index zero to have the first value.
This is the first value for it.
To print a value from the dictionary, it will be referred to to its queue.
To print the value of first, it will be referred to the queue brand.
Duplicates are not allowed and we said that the second value will override overwrite the existing value.
We have the second value here 2020.
It overwrite the first value.
To know the number of items.
We execute the famous function length.
In our case it will be three because we have three item.
Dictionary items.
It can be from any data type.
It can be string.
It can be boolean, integer or also a collection like in this example list.
When execute the type function to the dictionary, the result it will be class dict.
We can also create our dictionary from the constructor dict like here in this example.
And we have a dictionary.
In the upcoming video we will learn more about Python dictionaries.